after hiking for hours it's becoming
clear that finding a pink iguana above
ground really isn't that easy
but then you wanna see why not
we've got a peak of winner it's a new
one it's big it is it's a big male it's
a huge man it's pink color is due to a
lack of pigmentation so blood can be
seen running in the deeper layers of the
skin he actually is in good shape
there's no much food now in this area
but it's doing good
pink iguanas were once found all across
the island chain but over thousands of
years and Jew in part to competition
from another iguana species wolf volcano
has become their last stronghold
working quickly Gabriele and his team
begin to assess the iguana
71 say tank that you're not gonna change
that you in with it so now we're
measuring this animal measuring size and
weight will indicate if it's getting
enough food and growing normally blood
tests will show hormone levels and any
signs of disease
the data collected will tell the team if
the last remaining pink iguanas are
healthy we collect all these data is
because they may be informative about
the ecology and evolution of these
pieces because there are so few
individuals left scientists still don't
fully understand why so few pink iguanas
survive and whether this tiny population
can ever recover but this research will
go a long way towards gaining more
knowledge about this precious reptile
finally the scientists marked the
iguana's body with harmless paint
it will allow them to identify this
animal in the future are we letting him
go now yeah we'll have enough
[Music]
Gabrielle can use the data he's gathered
to explore a new planet we are thinking
about it possibility to translocate
part of the population somewhere else
here in Galapagos but well this we have
success we need to learn a lot about the
ecology of its pieces
[Music]
there will be chances for these pieces
to survive but we have to consider
extinction like a natural process as
well but what else would that be
you